Add documentation and e2e for BackupPolicy API (#318)
anynines/a8s-deployment: docs/application-developers/backuppolicy.md

> # Backup Policy

Reviewer: I would suggest installing https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint to provide markdown linting to help suggest small improvements to formatting here.

> The `BackupPolicy` controller manages the scheduling and lifecycle of `backup` resources in a k8s cluuster. It ensures backups are created according to a defined schedule, retains or deletes old backups based on a specified retention policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `BackupPolicy` controller manages the scheduling and lifecycle of `Backup` resources in a Kubernetes cluster. It ensures backups are created according to a defined schedule and retains or deletes old backups based on a specified retention policy.
```

## Features
### Scheduling

> Supports varias schedule types, for now we support `Cron`.

Reviewer: What do you mean `varias schedule types`. Could you clarify this sentence.

### Retention Policy
Allows defining retention based on the number of backups to retain or the maximum age of backups. 

> You can retain backups based on Count which will delete all the backups exciding the number specified, or define Retention Period specifies the maximum age of backups to retain e.g. 7 (days). Backups older than this period will be deleted. This period is calculated based on the creation timestamp of the backup. It supports multi duration types: `hours`, `days`, `months` and `years`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allows defining retention policies based on either the number of backups to retain or the maximum age of backups. You can retain backups for a specified number or define a maximum age for backups (e.g., 7 days). Backups older than this period will be deleted. This age is calculated based on the creation timestamp of the backup. It supports multiple duration types: `hours`, `days`, `months`, and `years`.
```

Reviewer: We might want to use period rather than age throughout. I will leave this to your discretion.

> More features will be added to the policy in future such as `Compression`, `Notifications`, `Encryption`

## Configuration
`BackupPolicy` consists of different configuration that manages the backup scheduling and other features.

### ScheduleConfiguration

> The ScheduleConfiguration defines the schedule type to use, we support for now Cron configuration which is the most common used method for creating schedules. More types could be supported in future based on the user usecases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ScheduleConfiguration defines the schedule type to be used. We currently support Cron configuration, which is the most common method for creating schedules. More types may be supported in the future based on user needs.

The configuration allows you to specify a timezone for calculating the schedule. The default is `UTC`.
```

The config gives the ability to specify timezone to calculate the schedule based upon, the default is `UTC`.
*Sample*

```yaml
scheduleConfig:
    scheduleType: Cron
    timezone: "CET"
    Cron:
        expression: "0 0 * * *"
```

### RetentionConfiguration

> The `RetentionConfiguration` defiones the policy for retaining and deleting old backups. It ensure that the backups are kept for a specified duration or up to a specified number of backups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RetentionConfiguration defines the policy for retaining and deleting old backups. It ensures that backups are kept for a specified duration or up to a specified number of backups.
```

#### Retention by Count

> When using retention by count, you specify the maximum number of backups to keep. Once this limit is exceeded, the oldest backups are deleted based on `creationTimestamp`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With retention by count, you define the maximum number of backups to retain. Backups exceeding this limit are deleted, starting with the oldest ones (based on creation timestamp).
```

*Sample*
```yaml
spec:
    retentionConfig:
        count: 5
```

#### Retention by Period

> When using Period for retention, you specify count and type. Type is the duration type a backup exceeding the count specified will be deleted starting from the `creationTimestamp` i.e. 5 `days`, 2 `month` or even 3 `years`

Reviewer: https://github.com/anynines/a8s-backup-manager/pull/83/files#r1687423156

*Sample*
```yaml
spec:
    retentionConfig:
        retentionPeriod:
            type: "days"
            count: 15
```

> In the above sample, the controller will fetch the backups created by the policy, check the createdTimestamp with 15 days, if it exceeds current date, backups will be marked for deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the controller fetches the backups created by the policy and checks their creationTimestamp against a 15-day window. If the timestamp falls outside this window (i.e., the backup is older than 15 days), it marks the backup for deletion.
```

## BackupPolicy Controller 

> The newly created policy, will create a backup immediately. A backup is created if there is no backups or if the scheduling time elapsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The newly created policy will create a backup immediately. A backup is created if there are no backups or if the scheduled time has elapsed.
```

> After creating a policy, you can disable it, which allow you to keep it instead of just deleting the resource, however, updating the status and reconcile will not be possible until enabling it again. All policies created are enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a policy, you can disable it, which allows you to keep it instead of just deleting the resource. However, updating the status and reconciliation will not be possible until it is enabled again. All policies created are enabled by default.
```

> The backup created will have a generated name with the convention `backup-`, where each backup created will be labeled by key `a8s.a9s/policy`  and value as the policy name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The backup created will have a generated name with the convention backup-, where each backup created will be labeled with the key a8s.a9s/policy and the value as the policy name.
```

Backup will be created without checking if there is a running backup. We need to validate the case of long running backups. 

> > Follow up ticket https://anynines.atlassian.net/browse/A8S-2451

Reviewer: I don't think it makes sense to include this ticket in the user facing documentation. This could be included in the component repository for developers.

# Backup Policy

The `BackupPolicy` controller manages the scheduling and lifecycle of `Backup` resources in a Kubernetes cluster. It ensures backups are created according to a defined schedule and retains or deletes old backups based on a specified retention policy.

## Features

### Scheduling

Create backups based on a configured schedule.

### Retention Policy

> Allows defining retention policies based on either the number of backups to retain or the maximum age of backups. You can retain backups for a specified number or define a maximum age for backups (e.g., 7 days). Backups older than this period will be deleted. This age is calculated based on the creation timestamp of the backup. It supports multiple duration types: `hour`, `day`, `month`, and `year`.

Reviewer 2: This line is too long. Please split up too long lines (above 100 characters)

> More features will be added to the policy in future such as `Compression`, `Notifications`, `Encryption`

## Configuration

`BackupPolicy` consists of different configuration that manages the backup scheduling and other features.

### ScheduleConfiguration

The ScheduleConfiguration defines the schedule type to be used. We currently support Cron configuration, which is the most common method for creating schedules. More types may be supported in the future based on user needs.

The configuration allows you to specify a timezone for calculating the schedule. The default is `UTC`.
The config gives the ability to specify timezone to calculate the schedule based upon, the default is `UTC`.
*Sample*

```yaml
scheduleConfig:
    scheduleType: Cron
    timezone: "CET"
    Cron:
        expression: "0 0 * * *"
```

### RetentionConfiguration

The RetentionConfiguration defines the policy for retaining and deleting old backups. It ensures that backups are kept for a specified duration or up to a specified number of backups.

#### Retention by Count

> With retention by count, you define the maximum number of backups to retain. Backups exceeding this limit are deleted, starting with the oldest ones (based on creation timestamp).

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Try formulating documentation in an active mood. I'm using this paragraph as an example, but my suggestion applies throughout.

> The controller(/a8s framework) will delete Backups above this limit, starting with the oldest ones.

The RetentionConfiguration defines the policy for retaining and deleting old backups. It ensures that backups are kept for a specified duration or up to a specified number of backups.

#### Retention by Count

With retention by count, you define the maximum number of backups to retain. The controller will delete Backups above this limit, starting with the oldest ones(based on creation timestamp).

##### Retention by Count Sample

```yaml
spec:
    retentionConfig:
        count: 5
```

#### Retention by Period

When using Period for retention, you specify count and type. Type is the duration type a backup exceeding the count specified will be deleted starting from the `creationTimestamp` i.e. 5 `days`, 2 `month` or even 3 `years`

##### Retention by Period Sample

```yaml
spec:
    retentionConfig:
        retentionPeriod:
            type: "day"
            count: 15
```

In the above example, the controller fetches the backups created by the policy and checks their creationTimestamp against a 15-day window. If the timestamp falls outside this window (i.e., the backup is older than 15 days), it marks the backup for deletion.

## BackupPolicy Controller

> Once the policy is created, the controller will create a backup immediately. A backup is created if there are no backups or if the scheduled time has elapsed.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: 
```suggestion
Once you create the policy, the controller will create a backup immediately. The controller creates a backup if there are no backups or if the scheduled time has elapsed.
```
